doc/docportal/use_scummvm/how_to_settings.rst, before:

=======================
Changing settings
=======================

From the Launcher
==================
The settings are arranged by subject, on different tabs:

:doc:`Game tab <../settings/game>` | :doc:`Engine tab <../settings/engine>` | :doc:`Graphics tab <../settings/graphics>` | :doc:`Control tab <../settings/control>` | :doc:`Keymaps tab <../settings/keymaps>` | :doc:`Audio tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Volume tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Midi tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`MT-32 tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Paths tab <../settings/paths>` | :doc:`Misc tab <../settings/misc>` | :doc:`Cloud tab <../settings/cloud>` | :doc:`LAN tab <../settings/lan>` | :doc:`Accessibility tab <../settings/accessibility>`

To change a setting globally, so that it affects all games, select **Options**  and then select the tab containing the setting you would like to change.

To change a setting for just one game, highlight the game in the games list, then select **Edit Game** and select the tab containing the setting you would like to change. To make the game use the settings on that tab instead of the global settings tab, tick **Override global settings**.

Not all settings are available for all games; for example, where there is no MIDI soundtrack for a game, there will be no MIDI or MT-32 tabs.

In the configuration file
==========================

See the :doc:`configuration file <../advanced_topics/configuration_file>` page for more information on how to do this. Configuration keys are listed in the Settings pages, after the description of each setting, in italics.

From the command line
======================

Some settings can be specified in the command line (the complete list can be found at :doc:`command line <../advanced_topics/command_line>`). These are valid for the duration of the program and don't get saved to the configuration file unless modified. They are also marked by a special color in the launcher tabs mentioned above.

Commit message:

DOCS: Updates docs to reflect Launcher changes
- updates screenshots to show Launcher grid view/changed settings tabs
- updates all settings pages to reflect new Launcher button terminology
- moves Engine tab content to Game tab page
- removes Engine tab from index
- fixes some broken refs/other small errors

doc/docportal/use_scummvm/how_to_settings.rst, after:

=======================
Changing settings
=======================

From the Launcher
==================
The settings are arranged by subject, on different tabs:

:doc:`Game tab <../settings/game>` | :doc:`Graphics tab <../settings/graphics>` | :doc:`Control tab <../settings/control>` | :doc:`Keymaps tab <../settings/keymaps>` | :doc:`Audio tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Volume tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Midi tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`MT-32 tab <../settings/audio>` | :doc:`Paths tab <../settings/paths>` | :doc:`Misc tab <../settings/misc>` | :doc:`Cloud tab <../settings/cloud>` | :doc:`LAN tab <../settings/lan>` | :doc:`Accessibility tab <../settings/accessibility>`

To change a setting globally, so that it affects all games, select the **Global Options** button to open the menu, and then select the tab containing the setting you would like to change.

To change a setting for just one game, highlight the game in the games list, then select the **Game Options** button and select the tab containing the setting you would like to change. If the Launcher is in grid view, select the game and then select the gear icon in the pop-up window. To make the game use the settings in the Game Options tab instead of the Global Options tab, tick **Override global settings**.

Not all settings are available for all games; for example, where there is no MIDI soundtrack for a game, there will be no MIDI or MT-32 tabs.

In the configuration file
==========================

See the :doc:`configuration file <../advanced_topics/configuration_file>` page for more information on how to do this. Configuration keys are listed in the Settings pages, after the description of each setting, in italics.

From the command line
======================

Some settings can be specified in the command line (the complete list can be found at :doc:`command line <../advanced_topics/command_line>`). These are valid for the duration of the program and don't get saved to the configuration file unless modified. They are also marked by a special color in the launcher tabs mentioned above.
