doc/docportal/settings/audio.rst, before:

===============
Audio
===============

Audio settings are found on four tabs:

:ref:`Audio <audiotab>` | :ref:`Volume <volumetab>` | :ref:`MIDI <miditab>` | :ref:`MT-32 <mt32tab>`

**To change settings globally:**

 	From the Launcher, select **Options**, then select the applicable tab.

**To change settings for a specific game:**

	From the Launcher, highlight the game in the games list, select **Edit Game**, and then select the applicable tab.

For a comprehensive look at how to use ScummVM's extensive audio settings, check out our :doc:`../advanced_topics/understand_audio` guide.

All settings can also be changed in the :doc:`../advanced_topics/configuration_file`. The configuration key is listed in italics after each setting description.

.. _audiotab:

The Audio tab
-----------------

Use the Audio tab to change the sound output for games.

.. figure:: ../images/settings/audio.png

    The Audio tab in the global settings

.. figure:: ../images/settings/audio_game.png

    The Audio tab in the game-specific settings.


,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _device:

Preferred device (global settings) or Music device (game-specific settings)
	Specifies the device ScummVM uses to output audio. When set to **<default>**, ScummVM automatically chooses the most appropriate option for the played game. If set to an MT-32 or a MIDI device, or if ScummVM chooses one of these automatically, the settings on the MT-32 or MIDI tabs also apply.

	*music_driver*

.. _opl:

AdLib Emulator
	Chooses which emulator is used by ScummVM when the AdLib emulator is chosen as the **Preferred device**.

	*opl_driver*

.. _speechmute:

Text and Speech
	For games with digitized speech, this setting lets the user decide whether to play the game with speech only, subtitles only, or both.

	*speech_mute*

	*subtitles*

.. _talkspeed:

Subtitle speed
	Adjusts the length of time that the subtitles are displayed on screen. The meaning of this value depends on the games. Some games treat it as a delay (a higher value means the subtitles are displayed for longer) while others treat it as a speed. Games that treat it as a delay include all LucasArts games, with the exception of Grim Fandango and Escape from Monkey Island, all Sierra games, and the Discworld games. Most other games treat it as a speed.

	*talkspeed*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _volumetab:

The Volume tab
-----------------

Use the Volume tab to set the relative volumes for various in-game sounds.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/volume_game.png

    The Volume tab in the game-specific settings.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _music:

Music volume
	Adjusts the volume of the music in the game.

	*music_volume*

.. _sfx:

SFX volume
	Adjusts the volume of the sound effects in the game.

	*sfx_volume*

.. _speechvol:

Speech volume
	Adjusts the volume of the digitized speech in the game, if it has any.

	*speech_volume*

.. _mute:

Mute All
	Mutes all game audio.

	*mute*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _miditab:


The MIDI tab
------------------------------

Use the MIDI tab to change the settings of General MIDI (GM) devices.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/MIDI.png

    The MIDI tab in the global settings.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _gm:

GM Device
	Specifies a preferred General MIDI device, which ScummVM uses if the **Preferred device** is set to **<default>** and General MIDI playback is required.

	*gm_device*

.. _soundfont:

Soundfont
	Specifies the path to a soundfont file, if this is required by the GM device.

	*soundfont*

.. _multi:

Mixed AdLib/MIDI mode
	Combines MIDI music with AdLib sound effects.

	*multi_midi*

.. _gain:

MIDI gain
	Adjusts the relative volume of the MIDI music. This is only supported by some music devices.

	*midi_gain*

.. _fluid:


FluidSynth
****************

Opens a new dialog, with three further tabs:
:ref:`fsreverb` | `Chorus`_ | `Misc`_


.. figure:: ../images/settings/fluidsynth.png

    The FluidSynth dialog, reached from the MIDI tab.

.. _fsreverb:

Reverb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reverberation, or reverb, describes the pattern of echoes and reflections that occur when a sound is heard in an enclosed closed space, such as a room or a concert hall.

.. _revact:

Active
	If ticked, reverb is added to the software synthesizer output.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_activate*

.. _revroom:

Room
	Sets the room size, which determines how much reverb there is.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_roomsize*

.. _revdamp:

Damp
	Dampens higher-frequency reverb, which produces a warmer sound.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_damping*

.. _revwidth:

Width
	Sets the stereo spread of the reverb signal.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_width*

.. _revlevel:

Level
	Sets the reverb output amplitude.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_level*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

_`Chorus`
^^^^^^^^^^^
The chorus effect thickens and colors the audio signal so that it sounds as if there are a chorus of instruments playing one part.

.. _chact:

Active
	If ticked, chorus effects are added to the software synthesizer output.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_activate*

.. _chnr:

N
	Sets the voice count of the chorus, in other words, how many instruments are playing one part.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_nr*

.. _chlevel:

Level
	Specifies the output amplitude of the chorus signal.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_level*

.. _chspeed:

Speed
	Sets the modulation speed of the output, in Hz.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_speed*

.. _chdepth:

Depth
	Specifies the modulation depth of the chorus.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_depth*

.. _chwave:

Type
	Specifies the chorus modulation waveform type.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_waveform*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,


_`Misc`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. _interp:

Interpolation
	Sets the interpolation method used by the software synthesizer.

	*fluidsynth_misc_interpolation*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _mt32tab:

The MT-32 tab
-----------------

Use the MT-32 tab to change the settings of Roland MT-32 devices.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/MT32.png

    The MT-32 tab in the global settings.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _mt32:

MT-32 Device
	Specifies a preferred MT-32 device, which ScummVM uses if the **Preferred device** is set to **<default>** and MT-32 playback is required.

	*mt32_device*

.. _nativemt32:

**True Roland MT-32 (disable GM emulation)**
	Tells ScummVM that the MIDI device is an actual Roland MT-32, LAPC-I, CM-64, CM-32L, CM-500 or other MT-32 device. Note that this cannot be used in conjuntion with the Roland GS device option.

	*native_mt32*

.. _gs:

**Roland GS device (enable MT-32 mappings)**
	Tells ScummVM that the MIDI device is a GS device that has an MT-32 map, such as an SC-55, SC-88 or SC-8820. Note that this cannot be used in conjunction with the True Roland MT-32 option.

	*enable_gs*

Commit message:

DOCS: Updates docs to reflect Launcher changes
- updates screenshots to show Launcher grid view/changed settings tabs
- updates all settings pages to reflect new Launcher button terminology
- moves Engine tab content to Game tab page
- removes Engine tab from index
- fixes some broken refs/other small errors

doc/docportal/settings/audio.rst, after:

===============
Audio
===============

Audio settings are found on four tabs:

:ref:`Audio <audiotab>` | :ref:`Volume <volumetab>` | :ref:`MIDI <miditab>` | :ref:`MT-32 <mt32tab>`

**To change settings globally:**

 	From the Launcher, select **Global Options**, then select the applicable tab.

**To change settings for a specific game:**

	From the Launcher, highlight the game in the games list, and select the **Game Options** button. If the Launcher is in grid view, select the game and then select the gear icon in the popup window. Select the applicable tab.

For a comprehensive look at how to use ScummVM's extensive audio settings, check out our :doc:`../advanced_topics/understand_audio` guide.

All settings can also be changed in the :doc:`../advanced_topics/configuration_file`. The configuration key is listed in italics after each setting description.

.. _audiotab:

The Audio tab
-----------------

Use the Audio tab to change the sound output of games.

.. figure:: ../images/settings/audio.png

    The Audio tab in the Global Options menu.

.. figure:: ../images/settings/audio_game.png

    The Audio tab in the Game Options menu.


,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _device:

Preferred device (global settings) or Music device (game-specific settings)
	Specifies the device ScummVM uses to output audio. When set to **<default>**, ScummVM automatically chooses the most appropriate option for the played game. If set to an MT-32 or a MIDI device, or if ScummVM chooses one of these automatically, the settings on the MT-32 or MIDI tabs also apply.

	*music_driver*

.. _opl:

AdLib Emulator
	Chooses which emulator is used by ScummVM when the AdLib emulator is chosen as the **Preferred device**.

	*opl_driver*

.. _speechmute:

Text and Speech
	For games with digitized speech, this setting lets the user decide whether to play the game with speech only, subtitles only, or both.

	*speech_mute*

	*subtitles*

.. _talkspeed:

Subtitle speed
	Adjusts the length of time that the subtitles are displayed on screen. The meaning of this value depends on the games. Some games treat it as a delay (a higher value means the subtitles are displayed for longer) while others treat it as a speed. Games that treat it as a delay include all LucasArts games, with the exception of Grim Fandango and Escape from Monkey Island, all Sierra games, and the Discworld games. Most other games treat it as a speed.

	*talkspeed*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _volumetab:

The Volume tab
-----------------

Use the Volume tab to set the relative volumes for various in-game sounds.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/volume_game.png

    The Volume tab in the Game Options menu.

,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _music:

Music volume
	Adjusts the volume of the music in the game.

	*music_volume*

.. _sfx:

SFX volume
	Adjusts the volume of the sound effects in the game.

	*sfx_volume*

.. _speechvol:

Speech volume
	Adjusts the volume of the digitized speech in the game, if it has any.

	*speech_volume*

.. _mute:

Mute All
	Mutes all game audio.

	*mute*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _miditab:


The MIDI tab
------------------------------

Use the MIDI tab to change the settings of General MIDI (GM) devices.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/MIDI.png

    The MIDI tab in the Global Options menu

,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _gm:

GM Device
	Specifies a preferred General MIDI device, which ScummVM uses if the **Preferred device** is set to **<default>** and General MIDI playback is required.

	*gm_device*

.. _soundfont:

Soundfont
	Specifies the path to a soundfont file, if this is required by the GM device.

	*soundfont*

.. _multi:

Mixed AdLib/MIDI mode
	Combines MIDI music with AdLib sound effects.

	*multi_midi*

.. _gain:

MIDI gain
	Adjusts the relative volume of the MIDI music. This is only supported by some music devices.

	*midi_gain*

.. _fluid:


FluidSynth
****************

Opens a new dialog, with three further tabs:
:ref:`fsreverb` | `Chorus`_ | `Misc`_


.. figure:: ../images/settings/fluidsynth.png

    The FluidSynth dialog, reached from the MIDI tab.

.. _fsreverb:

Reverb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reverberation, or reverb, describes the pattern of echoes and reflections that occur when a sound is heard in an enclosed closed space, such as a room or a concert hall.

.. _revact:

Active
	If ticked, reverb is added to the software synthesizer output.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_activate*

.. _revroom:

Room
	Sets the room size, which determines how much reverb there is.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_roomsize*

.. _revdamp:

Damp
	Dampens higher-frequency reverb, which produces a warmer sound.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_damping*

.. _revwidth:

Width
	Sets the stereo spread of the reverb signal.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_width*

.. _revlevel:

Level
	Sets the reverb output amplitude.

	*fluidsynth_reverb_level*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

_`Chorus`
^^^^^^^^^^^
The chorus effect thickens and colors the audio signal so that it sounds as if there are a chorus of instruments playing one part.

.. _chact:

Active
	If ticked, chorus effects are added to the software synthesizer output.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_activate*

.. _chnr:

N
	Sets the voice count of the chorus, in other words, how many instruments are playing one part.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_nr*

.. _chlevel:

Level
	Specifies the output amplitude of the chorus signal.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_level*

.. _chspeed:

Speed
	Sets the modulation speed of the output, in Hz.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_speed*

.. _chdepth:

Depth
	Specifies the modulation depth of the chorus.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_depth*

.. _chwave:

Type
	Specifies the chorus modulation waveform type.

	*fluidsynth_chorus_waveform*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,


_`Misc`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. _interp:

Interpolation
	Sets the interpolation method used by the software synthesizer.

	*fluidsynth_misc_interpolation*

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,


.. _mt32tab:

The MT-32 tab
-----------------

Use the MT-32 tab to change the settings of Roland MT-32 devices.


.. figure:: ../images/settings/MT32.png

    The MT-32 tab in the Global Options menu

,,,,,,,,,,,,,

.. _mt32:

MT-32 Device
	Specifies a preferred MT-32 device, which ScummVM uses if the **Preferred device** is set to **<default>** and MT-32 playback is required.

	*mt32_device*

.. _nativemt32:

**True Roland MT-32 (disable GM emulation)**
	Tells ScummVM that the MIDI device is an actual Roland MT-32, LAPC-I, CM-64, CM-32L, CM-500 or other MT-32 device. Note that this cannot be used in conjuntion with the Roland GS device option.

	*native_mt32*

.. _gs:

**Roland GS device (enable MT-32 mappings)**
	Tells ScummVM that the MIDI device is a GS device that has an MT-32 map, such as an SC-55, SC-88 or SC-8820. Note that this cannot be used in conjunction with the True Roland MT-32 option.

	*enable_gs*
